# Archery Score Normaliser

N.B.: I am yet to check whether the tables need updating to match the new indoor classifications announcements.

I started this project to create a more open scoring system for the University of Liverpool x Liverpool John Moores University Varsity archery competition. 2023 was the first year that this competition was ever held, thanks to the formation of LJMU's archery club. That year, it was attempted to normalise scores instead of handicaps. This produced some interesting results and required some dubious maths in Excel. Fortunately, UoL won by such a significant margin the maths wasn't really needed. However, to ensure that the system is fair for the future I decided to create a new system. In 2023, This means we can welcome all four of the bowstyles recognised by ArcheryGB (although I haven't implemented longbow yet). This is an advantage compared to other varsity archery competitions where bowstyles and entrants have to be limited.

Handicaps correspond to a raw score for each round, ignoring bowstyle or gender. For example, a 567 Portsmouth always corresponds to a handicap of 37. To account for the differences in bowstyle and gender, ArcheryGB adjusts the handicap required to achieve each classification (A3 to EMB or IA3 to IGMB). By plotting the handicaps required to achieve each classification, it can be seen that there is a consistent offset in the required handicaps between bowstyles and genders. For genders, there is a standard integer offset (for example, the handicap required by a RW to achieve the same classification as a RM is always 5 points lower). Meanwhile the offsets for bowstyles each follow a nice binomial curve. By using these adjustment factors, handicaps for each archer can be adjusted so that they are equivalent to that of a Recurve Man of the same skill level.

Scores can be manually converted on an individual basis, but to make things easier for the TO I've also implemented a bulk import option. This supports both a simple .csv of the results or uses the direct IANSEO qualification round results output.

